---
layout: post
title: Löve2d, getting started
---

This is supposed to be a short introduction to the bare minimum of getting
a Löve2d game up and running. First and foremost, you should follow the
[getting started](https://love2d.org/wiki/Getting_Started) page on love2d.org.
This wiki-page will be a walktrough to get up and running very quickly on the
major platforms. 

### Bare minimum

All of your games should consist of, at least, the three following functions. 
```lua
function love.load()
end

function love.update(dt)
end

function love.draw()
end
```

The `love.load()` function handles all the initial loading, when the game is
run. In this function you should be loading your images, audio files and
setting initial values for players, as well as other objects. `love.load()` is
only called once as the very first function.

In `love.update()` all updates are handled in ticks. If your game is running at
30 frames per second (FPS), this function is called 30 times per second! Here
we register things like keyboard inputs and movement. 

`love.draw()` handles all the drawing. This is done sequentially, which means
that the first thing drawn will be on the bottom 'layer'. 

### A moving rectangle

Let us draw something onto the screen! If you followed the [getting started](https://love2d.org/wiki/Getting_Started) link from above, you should have done this by now. 

We will be drawing a rectangle with `love.graphics.rectangle(mode, x, y, width,
height)`, all values are in pixels and drawing is done from the upper left
corner. *Notice* how things are growing downwards. This is because the Y-axis
is flipped. The bigger the Y-value, the further towards the bottom.

Putting it all together we have
```lua
function love.load()
end

function love.update(dt)
end

function love.draw()
  love.graphics.rectangle("fill", 20, 20, 100, 100)
end
```

Which you can then run by navigating to the src-folder and run `$ love .` 

![/images/2020-11-09/drawsquare.png]

Notice how the square has an upper left corner drawn at the point (20, 20).
